To recap, any request that is made will enter one of three pathways.
We're going to skip pathway one because it doesn't go through any of the logic and the security filters.
The register method is publicly available to anybody, but pathway number two is a bit more interesting.
The user makes a request to authenticate.
First, it goes through the exception handler filter, which will catch any runtime exception that is
thrown in subsequent filters.
The filter that follows is the authentication filter because the client is trying to log in the filters
is attempt authentication method is going to get invoked.
Ultimately, that's going to call upon the authentication manager to verify their credentials.
And if their credentials match a username and password in our database, then we send them back a JWT
token, which leads us to pathway number three.
This pathway validates a client's JWT token before authorizing them to use any of our services.
So after a user is authenticated, they were granted a token and they will use that token as evidence
that they've been authenticated.
No matter what the request is.
It starts off in the exception handling filter and it needs to start there because we want to catch
any runtime exception that gets thrown in subsequent filters.
The request goes through the authentication filter, but the authentication filters is attempt.
Authentication method is not going to run because we're not authenticating.
It's just going to go straight to the next filter that follows the JWT authorization filter.
And the purpose of this filter is to authorize the client's request if and only if the token that they're
giving us is actually valid.
So it's going to extract the header, it's going to extract the payload along with a secret key that
nobody knows about.
It will use a signing algorithm that combines all three and produces a test signature.
If the test signature matches what the client gives us, then we know they gave us a valid token and
we're going to authorize their request.
We implemented all of these pathways and as a result we have secured our application.
I really hope that you enjoyed this course.
In the end, we developed a fully loaded API that exposes a plethora of services.
We have anticipated many scenarios where the user may enter bad data through exceptions in the process.
And now here we're handling these exceptions.
We've secured our application such that clients must first register and then after they've registered,
they need to log in in order to then be provided a JWT token.
Once they have that token, they can start using it to make requests to their heart's content.
Well, until the token expires and in sections 20 and 21, we covered documentation as well as testing.
Although we didn't implement those two concepts in the grade submission API, it would work the exact
same way.
Anyways, we connected our application to an SQL database and we're interacting with that database using
spring data GPA.
You also learn how to connect your application to a MySQL database.
And inside of our app we have defined one to many relationships, many to many relationships, many
to one relationships.
This API is fully loaded and in the end you have acquired the skills needed to develop powerful APIs.
I've been having a lot of fun interacting with you guys on Discord.
If you want to stay in touch, by all means, you're welcome to join.
And if I ever end up making a microservices course where we eventually cover deployment, I will notify
the discord inside of the announcements channel.
So you'll be the first one to receive a notification.
Thank you so much for your time and for trusting me in teaching you spring boot.